In this movie, I'm going to teach you how to use Merge Shape Tools in PowerPoint.
We will use this knowledge later on to build a good looking concept diagram within an Acme template.
To start with,
sometimes it happens that the shape you want to use isn't actually included in a built-in shape list.
Luckily, you can use the Merge Shape Tools to create virtually any shape you want.
To activate the Merge Shape Tools,
you need to draw at least two shapes.
As a next step, select them and navigate to the Shape Format tab.
You can find the Merge Shape Tools over here.
Alternatively, you can use the Merge Shapes command directly from the Quick Access Toolbar.
This second method is, of course, faster.
Please keep in mind that if you select only one shape or none, the Merge Shape command will be inactive
and grayed out like this.
Let's see what's inside the Merge Shape command.
Generally, you have five options to choose from that dropdown list.
'Union', 'Combine', 'Fragment', 'Intersect' and 'Subtract'.
On this slide, you can see objects that I created using these five Merge Shape commands.
Now I'm going to show you step by step how to get these visual effects.
I will start with demonstrating the 'Union' command.
Here I have two circles.
I select both of them by pressing the Shift key.
Now I navigate through my Quick Access Toolbar and I select 'Union' from the dropdown list.
As you can see with just one click, you'll get one shape.
Please keep in mind that the combined object will always keep the color of the first selected object.
Now I'm going to use the 'Combine' command.
As you can see, the two shapes are now combined into one and the overlapping part has become transparent.
Let's see how 'Fragment' works.
I again select both circles and click on 'Fragment' command.
As a result, we get three independent parts.
Now it's time to demonstrate how 'Intersect' command works.
Let's select two shapes and click 'Intersect'.
What remains is an object shaped like an overlapping part.
Finally, let's select both shapes and click at the 'Subtract' command.
As you can see, it cuts out parts of shapes.
Please keep in mind that the selection order matters here.
This is what I get
if I select gray shape first.
And this is what they get if I select the green shape first.
What can be concluded out of this is that the 'Subtract' command always cuts out the overlapping
portion of the last selected shape.
OK, this is how the Merge Shape Tool command works.